JUDY WOODRUFF: We zero in now on
the big story of this day, the
president's decision to withdraw
from a global accord
aimed at slowing the
impact of climate change.
We explore the consequences of
all this, and how it may play
out in coming years in the
United States and
around the world.
We begin with California
Governor Jerry
Brown, a Democrat.
His state is battling efforts
by the Trump administration
to roll back some emissions
regulations.
And he's flying to China
tomorrow to discuss what more
can be done on climate change.
I spoke with him just
a short time ago.
Governor Jerry Brown,
thank you for joining us.
Your office put out a statement
a short time ago saying, this
is an insane course of action.
Do you mean that?
GOV.
JERRY BROWN (D), California:
I certainly do mean that.
If anything, it's understated.
Climate change is an existential
threat to all of humanity,
to the natural systems on
which all life depends.
Not tomorrow, but starting very
quickly, we're seeing changes.
California has lost 100
million trees from the drought.
Sea level is rising.
the Antarctica is seeing ice
melting at an ever rapid rate,
some say in an irreversible
way.
This is a profoundly
serious problem.
The Paris agreement was an
agreement of nations saying
what they could do voluntarily.
Here's the commitment.
President Obama made
something I thought was
doable, was reasonable.
In fact, California is doing
that very thing now, and our
economy has grown in terms of
GDP 40 percent faster than
the nation as a whole.
We have created over
two million jobs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: So, climate
action and jobs go together.
So, that's why I say this move
by Trump makes no sense, and
it's going to hurt America,
and it's going to cost
jobs, not the reverse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well,
as you know, he makes
a different argument.
He says this -- he said, I'm
in favor of doing something to
help the environment, but he
said this accord is going to
cost millions of jobs and cost
the American people trillions
in lost economic output.
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: That's
just -- that's a lie.
That's completely unwarranted.
Yes, jobs are always declining
all the time, the creative
destruction of capitalism.
But jobs are being created.
California has lost jobs, but,
net, we have added 2.4 million
jobs in the last eight years,
since the recession.
That is a remarkable
outcome, and it's consistent,
in fact, I would say
driven by the clean tech
investments and the climate
action strategies that
we have embarked upon.
So, President Trump
is completely wrong.
He's doing this for his own
base, highly ideological.
He's wrong on the science.
He's wrong on the facts.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, he
also -- another argument he
makes, Governor, he says,
this puts restrictions
on the United States, while the
United States is reducing its
emissions, while it lets other
countries like China,
that continue to pollute
more and more, get away
with doing that for
years to come with no penalties.
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: He really
distorts the record.
He has a record of that,
and he's doing it again.
China is exceeding its
commitment, and it's turning a
big machine around, to the point
where it's stopping the growth
of emissions in a few years.
And it's the leader in
wind and solar power.
And, yes, they're
building some coal pants.
They have to go faster.
They're not perfect.
But this is an agreement of
the willing that have said in
Paris, here's what we will do.
And it's reasonable, what
China is doing, reasonable,
what America is doing.
In fact, I would say both
have to do a lot more.
So, Trump is taking this in
the exact wrong direction,
which will cost us more money.
When the New York, the subway
is underwater, or New Orleans
or President Trump's hotel
down there in Florida are
devastated by rising sea
levels, that will cost
hundreds of billions.
Aggregate, over decades,
we're talking trillions.
So, the economics is all
to the opposite of what
President Trump is saying.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Governor, among
other things, as you know, the
president is talking to his
base, people who voted for him.
There's an indication they're
going to like what he did today.
Has your side of this argument
missed an opportunity to
explain to the American
people how protecting
the environment can also
be good for the economy?
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: Well, I don't think
that message is clear enough.
And certainly people
can be more articulate.
California,
obviously, it's clear.
Orange County for the first
time in decades voted against
a Republican, Mr. Trump.
And I think part of that is our
environmental policies working,
as well as our job creation
running at full speed.
So, yes, this is a
message that has to be
made more persuasively,
more simply, and made
more extensively
across the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You
mentioned California, and
I think you said in your
statement today California
can continue to cut its
own deals with other
countries, continue to move
forward with technology.
How does that work?
I mean, the president
said he's willing to
renegotiate the Paris accord.
Is that realistic at the same
time you're talking about
California and other states
going forward on their own?
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: Already,
European nations have said
Paris is not negotiable.
The president of France
said that and others.
What's he going to renegotiate?
This is a modest commitment on
the part of President Obama.
And we have to do
more, not less.
I'm going to China tomorrow.
I will meet with high officials.
We will agree on standardizing
various clean technologies
that will make it possible to
invest and produce even more.
We're going to work,
California and China.
We're working with New
York and Washington.
Canada and Mexico have joined
with over 170 states, provinces
and nations committed to
this Paris agreement.
So, the world is not
waiting for Donald Trump.
He has given a body blow to
the cause of environmental
sustainability, but
we will take it and we
will respond.
We're on the field of battle,
and we're going to overcome.
That, I can promise you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Governor
Jerry Brown of California,
thank you very much.
GOV.
JERRY BROWN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now for an
opposing view, we turn to
Senator Mike Lee of Utah.
He was one of 22 Republican
senators who signed a letter to
President Trump last week urging
him to withdraw from
the Paris agreement.
Senator Lee, welcome
to the program.
I believe you just heard
the response of California
Governor Jerry Brown,
who argues this is a
fundamentally wrong decision.
He said it's going to
set back the cause of
fighting climate change.
SEN.
MIKE LEE (R), Utah:
Yes, I think he's wrong.
I think I disagree with
every word, every syllable he
uttered, including the words but
and the.
Look, this was a right decision.
This was the right thing to do.
When President Obama
entered into this agreement
a couple years ago,
he didn't submit it to
the United States Senate for
ratification as a treaty.
He didn't do that because he
knew there was absolutely no
way he could get the two-thirds
supermajority vote necessary
in order to get this ratified,
in order to make it the law
of the land as a
governing treaty.
He didn't do that.
And, consequently, it
was entirely foreseeable
that when a different
president from a different
party with a different
point of view came along, he
wouldn't move forward with it.
President Trump did that
today because he decided this
wasn't in the interest of the
United States of America.
He did the right thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, one
of the arguments that we heard
Governor Brown and others making
today is that President Trump
and those who are pushing this
decision today don't understand
the way the climate and jobs,
the economy interact, that,
in fact, when you do less
to fight climate change, as this
-- as what the president, in
effect, is doing, he's missing
a chance for the United States
to move ahead with clean
energy technology, so, in other
words, that what he's done
is going to cost jobs,
rather than increase them.
SEN.
MIKE LEE: You know, I
would flip it on them.
I would point out, quite to
the contrary, what has brought
down emissions both from
stationary sources like power
plants and from mobile sources
like automobiles is innovation,
improvements in technology
that have occurred as a result
of free market forces, and in
the absence, I would add, of
anything like a treaty comparing
to the Paris agreement.
So, this has happened
through innovation,
through free market forces.
I think quite the opposite
of what Governor Brown was
saying, that when the government
gets involved, it tends
to squelch innovation.
And that innovation is needed
for us to control emissions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me quote
something that your predecessor,
the former EPA administrator,
Gina -- not your predecessor
-- I'm sorry - - the former EPA
administrator, Gina McCarthy,
said today.
She said: "This is an
embarrassing day for
the United States."
She went on to say:
"Make no mistake.
Because of this reckless
decision, our businesses will
lose investment opportunities.
We will cede technology
breakthroughs to countries
that will take over our
leadership role, and
the rest of the world
will question whether
the U.S. can be trusted."
SEN.
MIKE LEE: Yes, that's
pretty apocalyptic.
And I think that's
apocalyptic to the point
of straining credulity.
But, look, these are
smart people, but they
are not omniscient.
And I think their prophesies
of doom and gloom are
entirely unwarranted.
And, in fact, I think
they're inappropriate.
Again, we have to get back to
the fact that this power, the
power to enter into binding
international agreements,
this is a shared power.
This is something that
was decided, should be
a shared power, at the
Constitutional Convention
some 230 years ago.
As I explain in my new book
that came out this week called
"Written Out Of History,"
these powers that are vested
in the federal government
have to be clearly enumerated.
They have to be limited.
And we can't give excessive,
unfettered power to a president
to act alone, to bind an entire
country to a set of
principles, a set of
rules that the president,
him or herself, makes.
That's what we would be allowing
presidents to do if we said
any time a president, like
President Obama, wants to
subject an entire country to a
new set of rules, that president
can do so without submitting
that international
agreement to the Senate
for treaty ratification.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Senator,
maybe this is alone those lines,
but I'm now reading comments
even from some Republicans
who have a problem
with this decision.
A Republican congressman
from Florida, Carlos
Curbelo, was interviewed,
I heard, just within
the hour.
He is saying this is a mistake.
He said: I'm already seeing
the impact of climate change
on my part of the state.
And we need to move forward
with technology to address it.
And I want to quickly
quote the former Republican
Treasury Secretary
Henry Paulson, who said
he's dismayed and disappointed.
He said: "By moving ourselves
to the sidelines of an evolving
global conversation," he said,
"we have left a void
for others to fill.
Regrettably, this undermines
U.S. credibility, weakens our
ability to lead in other areas."
SEN.
MIKE LEE: Yes, look,
I completely disagree.
The fact that you can point to
some people who call themselves
Republicans who disagree
with this decision doesn't
change this analysis.
And I notice there wasn't
a corresponding pushback to
the person who preceded me.
You didn't push back like
this to Governor Brown.
I understand that you might
disagree personally with
what the president did today.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Senator -- Senator...
SEN.
MIKE LEE: But that doesn't
make it -- I'm sorry.
I would like to
answer your question.
That doesn't mean
that this was wrong.
This was the right thing to do.
The president put people
before this Paris agreement.
He put Pittsburgh before Paris.
He did the right thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, just
to set the record straight, I
quoted President Trump several
times back to Governor Brown in
my interview with him, just as I
have quoted some who criticized
the president's decision
in my interview with you.
Finally, Senator, let me...
SEN.
MIKE LEE: Yes.
But I want to be clear.
The reason I made that point
is, you didn't try to identify
some Democrats who might have
supported this.
You quoted the
president himself.
And what I'm saying is, you
are pushing back on me in a way
you didn't push back on him.
That's fine.
That's your right to
do that as a reporter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me
finally ask you, Senator,
the president said he's
open to renegotiation.
We're already hearing from
European officials that it's --
that this is an accord not open
for renegotiation.
So, how do you foresee moving
ahead in that direction?
SEN.
MIKE LEE: Well, if
they're saying this is not
open for renegotiation,
and this negotiation
was itself something that
couldn't get through the
United States Senate,
and that's why President
Obama never submitted it to the
Senate for treaty ratification,
then we're at an impasse,
and we will proceed.
We will proceed, by the way, I
should add, as a global leader
in environmental regulation.
We are a global leader
in the rule of law.
We have brought down
emissions in this country
through our legal system
and through technological
innovation.
We can do this on our own.
We don't have to have the
permission of countries all
over the world to do that.
We have done it pretty well.
We have done it much better
than a lot of our would-be
partners in this agreement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Mike
Lee of Utah, thank you very
much for talking with us.
SEN.
MIKE LEE: Thank you.